# HTTP Vs HTTPS:
HTTPS is HTTP with encryption. The only difference 
between the two protocols is that HTTPS uses TLS (SSL) 
to encrypt normal HTTP requests and responses. 
As a result, HTTPS is far more secure than HTTP. 
A website that uses HTTP has http:// in its URL, 
while a website that uses HTTPS has https://.

# What is HTTP?
HTTP stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol, and 
it is a protocol – or a prescribed order and syntax 
for presenting information – used for transferring data 
over a network. Most information that is sent over the 
Internet, including website content and API calls, 
uses the HTTP protocol. There are two main kinds of HTTP 
messages: requests and responses.

In the OSI model, HTTP is a layer 7 protocol.

# What is an HTTP request? What is an HTTP response?
HTTP requests are generated by a user's browser as the 
user interacts with web properties. For example, if a user
clicks on a hyperlink, the browser will send a series of 
"HTTP GET" requests for the content that appears on that 
page. If someone Googles "What is HTTP?" and this article 
shows up in the search results, when they click on the 
link, their browser will create and send a series of 
HTTP requests in order to get the information necessary 
to render the page.

These HTTP requests all go to either an origin server 
or a proxy caching server, and that server will generate 
an HTTP response. HTTP responses are answers to HTTP 
requests.

# What does a typical HTTP request look like?
An HTTP request is just a series of lines of text that 
follow the HTTP protocol. A GET request might look 
like this:
```
GET /hello.txt HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: curl/7.63.0 libcurl/7.63.0 OpenSSL/1.1.l zlib/1.2.11
Host: www.example.com
Accept-Language: en
```
This section of text, generated by the user's browser, 
gets sent across the Internet. The problem is, it's 
sent just like this, in plaintext that anyone monitoring 
the connection can read.

When an origin server receives an HTTP request, it sends 
an HTTP response, which is similar:
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2019 12:14:39 GMT
Server: Apache
Last-Modified: Mon, 28 Jan 2019 11:17:01 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Length: 12
Vary: Accept-Encoding
Content-Type: text/plain
```
If a website uses HTTP instead of HTTPS, all requests 
and responses can be read by anyone who is monitoring 
the session.

# What is HTTPS?
The S in HTTPS stands for "secure." HTTPS uses TLS (or SSL) 
to encrypt HTTP requests and responses, so in the example 
above, instead of the text, an attacker would see a 
bunch of seemingly random characters.
```
Instead of:


GET /hello.txt HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: curl/7.63.0 libcurl/7.63.0 OpenSSL/1.1.l zlib/1.2.11
Host: www.example.com
Accept-Language: en

The attacker sees something like:

t8Fw6T8UV81pQfyhDkhebbz7+oiwldr1j2gHBB3L3RFTRsQCpaSnSBZ78Vme+DpDVJPvZdZUZHpzbbcqmSW1+3xXGs
```

# In HTTPS, how does TLS/SSL encrypt HTTP requests and responses?
TLS uses a technology called public key encryption: there are two keys, a public key and a private key, and the public key is shared with client devices via the server's SSL certificate. When a client opens a connection with a server, the two devices use the public and private key to agree on new keys, called session keys, to encrypt further communications between them.

All HTTP requests and responses are then encrypted with these session keys (this takes place at layer 6 in the OSI model), so that anyone who intercepts communications can only see a random string of characters, not the plaintext.



```
- HTTP URL in your browser's address bar is http:// and the HTTPS URL is https://.
- HTTP is unsecured while HTTPS is secured.
- HTTP sends data over port 80 while HTTPS uses port 443.
- HTTP operates at application layer, while HTTPS operates at transport layer.
- No SSL certificates are required for HTTP, with HTTPS it is required that you have an SSL certificate and it is signed by a CA.
- HTTP doesn't require domain validation, where as HTTPS requires at least domain validation and certain certificates even require legal document validation.
- No encryption in HTTP, with HTTPS the data is encrypted before sending.

```
